# Accelerometer

## Description
BMA253 is a digital, triaxial acceleration sensor. Communication is carried over I2C interface.
Two independently programmed interrupt lines provide various motion triggers and asynchronous data readout capability.

### Part details

Manufacturer:
Bosch Sensortec GmbH 

Part number:
BMA253

Datasheet: [link](https://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/_tech/media/datasheets/BST-BMA253-DS000-01.pdf)

## Code example

!!! info "Compiling example"
    This example is based on Mbed OS and requires a simple setup. For full description check [Code Setup](./code-setup.md) page.

### BMA253 driver

Mbed OS driver for SensorIO can be found here: [BMA253 on Github](https://github.com).

### Code

**1. Latest data**

In this example IRQ line is used to provide callback with most recent acceleration data.
Please mind that sensor's callback is executed in the context of sensor's own thread.

```c++
{!development-boards/sensorio/assets/bma253main.cpp!}
```

Example `main.cpp` file can be downloaded from [here](./assets/bma253main.cpp).

**2. Tap detection**

!!! warning "ESD or short-circuit damage possible!"
    This example requires touching the board. To avoid damage it has to be done with keeping in mind ESD protection rules.
    Avoid touching any conductive parts or elements. It is advised to 'tap' only plastic and safe parts of the board, like mikro BUS black plastic pin inlets.

In this example IRQ line is used to provide data when tap is detected.

Please change sensor config code lines from main function in previous example to:

```c++
Bma253::Config accConfig;
accConfig.bw = Bma253::FilterBandwidth::BW_500_Hz;
accConfig.attachCallback(Bma253::IrqLine::LINE_1, &dataCallback)
         .enableEvent(Bma253::IrqLine::LINE_1, Bma253::Event::SINGLE_TAP);

```

```SINGLE_TAP``` is event config to detect taping.  
```FilterBandwidth::BW_500_Hz``` is non-default settings for filtering acceleration data used to event (tap) detection.
Higher bandwidth is desirable for detecting dynamic events.

Try taping gently safe parts on the board and observe output.
